# 12. Transactions
Created Monday 17 August 2020


* Say we are running a bank
* A transaction is a series of SQL statements, treated as a single logical unit. If any f the statements fail, the previous statements are rolled back.
* We need to make transactions ACID-compliant.
	1. **Atomicity** - Either all are complted or none are.
	2. **Consistency** - Before the transaction, the DB is a in a valid state. After the transaction, it should be in the valid state.
	3. **Isolation** - Until the changes are committed by a transaction are completed, the shouldn't be visible to other connections. Transactions can't depend on one another.
	4. **Durability** - Once the changes are done, they are permanent. They come up even of the app runs again or the DB is restarted.
* We need to to do this only when we are changing data on our database, and not for * queries.


*****


* SQLite used transactions by default, and auto commits by default. All changes are transactions.
* JDBC Connection also auto commits changes by default. But this can be turned off. Still the changes in SQLite are a transaction.


*****

When working with SQLite, the following commands are used by the transactions:

1. BEGIN TRANSACTION - manually start the transaction
2. END TRANSACTION - ends the transaction. Committing also ends a transaction.
3. COMMIT - commits the changes and ends the transaction. END TRANSACTION and COMMIT are aliases.
4. ROLLBACK - this rolls back any **uncommited** changes and ends the transaction. It does so only w.r.t the last COMMIT or ROLLBACK.

Note: If we close a connection before commiting any changes, the changes are rolled back.

*****

Transactions with JDBC

* We **don't** code the tranction-related SQL statements and **just** use Statement objects to execute them.
* We instead call methods in the Connection class to execute transaction related commands.
* Steps:
	1. Turn off the default auto-commit behavior off by doing Connection.setAutoCommit(false).
	2. Perform te SQL operations that perform the transaction
	3. If there are no errors, we do Connection.commit() to commit the changes. If there are errors, we do Connection.rollback().
	4. Turn the default auto-commit behavior on by doing Connection.setAutoCommit(true).


