# 6. JDBC intro
Created Saturday 15 August 2020


* JDBC - Java Database Connectivity
* JDBC API acts as a middleman between the Java application and the data source(Database, spreadsheet or even flatfiles). It consists of two packages:
	1. java.sql(core JDBC)
	2. javax.sql(optional JDBC - for server databases)
* To access a database, we need the corresponding JDBC driver. Here we need a sqlite JDBC driver.
* The driver is simply a Java library containing classes that implement the JDBC API
* We are going to use an SQLite database. It is one of the most used database software.



* In SQLite, an entire database(group of tables) is stored in a single file having a .db extension.


*****

Prerequisites:

1. Install SQLite on your system from the [site](https://www.sqlite.org/download.html). (**or just** apt install sqlite3 for Linux)
2. Download sqlite-jdbc driver from the site, it will be a .jar file, around 5MB. e.g **sqlite-jdbc-3.30.1.jar**

How to connect to the database:

1. Include(physically) the **sqlite-jdbc-3.30.1.jar **in some directory of the project.
2. Set the connection string url as, it can be both relative or absolute path to the .db file.

	DriverManager.getConnection("jdbc:sqlite:PATH_TO__DB_FILE");
	DriverManager.getConnection("jdbc:sqlite:../testjava.db"); // example
	

3. When running the code(bytecode after compilation), have the -classpath option set to the JDBC driver path having a ".:" prepended, like this


	java -classpath ".:PATH_TO_JDBC_DRIVER_JAR_FILE" App
	java -classpath ".:../lib/sqlite-jdbc-3.30.1.jar" App // example
	// path is '../lib/sqlite-jdbc-3.30.1.jar', assuming the .class is in src
	
**Done!!**

